![](spacer.gif)  
---  
![](spacer.gif) |  ![](utep_logo.gif)  
  
|  ![](spacer.gif)  
---  
[ Christopher Kiekintveld's Homepage](http://www.cs.utep.edu/kiekintveld/)  
  
|  Your browser does not support JavaScript! OR The JavaScript has been turned
off! Please upgrade your browser OR turn on the JavaScript on your browser.  
---  
|  ![Chris Kiekintveld](images/Chris_Kiekintveld.jpg) |  **_Research
Interests:_** artificial intelligence, multi-agent systems, computational game
theory, adversarial reasoning, risk analysis, machine learning, trading
agents, supply chain management, security, distributed optimization, mechanism
design, behavioral game theory, team and coalition formation

I am an associate professor in [computer science](http://www.cs.utep.edu) at
the [University of Texas at El Paso](http://www.utep.edu). My research work in
the area of artificial intelligence is driven by fundamental questions about
how we can use computational analysis techniques to make good decisions in
highly complex environments. I am especially interested in situations with
multiple decision-makers, which raises questions about how to predict and
react to the behavior of other intelligent agents (including humans) in both
cooperative and adversarial settings. In artificial intelligence, this class
of problems is often referred to as multi-agent systems. Some examples of
multi-agent systems include teams of rescue workers, soldiers, or robots
coordinating to achieve a mission, trading agents participating in auctions of
financial markets, and security forces trying to prevent attacks on critical
infrastructure or computer networks.

My basic research centers around developing novel techniques for strategic
reasoning in multi-agent domains, including new algorithms, models, and
computing methodologies that exploit the availability of computational
resources to scale to ever larger and more complex domains than existing
methods. This work contributes to computational game theory, adversarial
reasoning, distributed optimization, agent-based simulation, and other related
areas. The unifying theme across these areas is predicting how other
intelligent agents will act, based on knowledge of their capabilities, goals,
historical patterns of behavior, and other factors. One goal of my work is to
develop _computationally scalable_ methods for systems with hundreds or
thousands of agents and massive strategy spaces. I am also very interested in
developing techniques for improving the _robustness_ of solutions to various
types of uncertainty, including model uncertainty and bounded rationality.

Working on real-world applications is an important element of my research
approach, and often provides great inspiration to address fundamental
challenges. I have interests in a variety of application areas, including
electronic commerce, infrastructure security, transportation, and energy.
Recently I have worked extensively on applications of game theory to
infrastructure protection, including a decision support system called IRIS
that is currently deployed by the Federal Air Marshals Service (FAMS) and a
second system that is in testing for nationwide deployment by the
Transportation Security Administration. I have several new projects underway
in this area, including work on border security applications. Another area
that I have been heavily involved in is automated trading agents for
e-Commerce applications. I participated in the [Trading Agent
Competition](http://www.tradingagents.org), and was a lead developer for the
Deep Maize agent, which won the tournament in 2008 and has consistently been
among the top few performers in every tournament to date.

Prior to joining UTEP I was a postdoctoral reseach associate at the
[University of Southern California](http://www.usc.edu), where I worked with
[Milind Tambe](http://teamcore.usc.edu/tambe) and the
[Teamcore](http://teamcore.usc.edu) research group. I received my Ph.D. from
the [University of Michigan](http://www.umich.edu), where I was advised by
[Michael Wellman](http://ai.eecs.umich.edu/people/wellman). During my time at
Michigan I was active as a fellow of the [STIET](http://stiet.si.umich.edu)
program, which provides interdisciplinary training and brings together
researchers from diverse disciplines with shared interests in incentive-
centered design.  
---|---  
![Contact Information](images/contact_info_utep.png)  
[![UAI
tutorial](images/UAI_27.jpg)](http://videolectures.net/uai2011_tambe_kiekintveld_game/)

An invited tutorial given by Milind Tambe and Chris Kiekintveld at UAI 2011:
[Game Theory for Security: Lessons learned from deployed
applications](http://videolectures.net/uai2011_tambe_kiekintveld_game/)  
[![Uncertainty in Security
Games](images/overview_uncertainty.jpg)](http://edumeta.com/channels/OpenInformatics/38889041)

A talk given at the International Workshop on Safety, Security, and Efficiency
for Critical Infrastructures: [An Overview of Recent Progress on Uncertainty
in Security Games](http://edumeta.com/channels/OpenInformatics/38889041)  
  
* * *

Your browser does not support JavaScript! OR The JavaScript has been turned
off! Please upgrade your browser OR turn on the JavaScript on your browser.  
---

